Comfort oriented and will take you away from your responsibilities and that's
what it will become. But if you decide like Terence McKenna did that,
it's an intellectual catalyst that it will facilitate your ability to read and
learn and think and write, then it will become that as well.
Yeah, it's, it's a weird one, right?
Because people that are people that take it that are prone to
paranoia,
or that are dealing with like some difficult issues in their life right now that
they're perhaps trying to avoid, it becomes an uncomfortable experience,
whereas people that are happy and having a good time and in a good
place, the marijuana will sort of enhance that. I'll give you this loving,
warm feeling of,
of comfort and of like sort of acceptance of your existence and it's going to be
okay.
Right. But I think even the paranoia is like a sort of
a sort of, um, meme.
You could say a sort of vestige of this propaganda that makes people afraid in
the same idea. Vein is the bad trip.
I think the concept of a bad trip is a very damaging concept because,
and I know from personal experience,
I never really used psychedelics in high school with the exception of salvia.
Um, because I was terrified of a bad trip. I talked to friends,
who'd describe bad trips and they'd say, oh, it's a, it's a bad, it's bad trip.
It's really bad. It's scary. And I would think, oh, that's terrible. I could,
I would never want a bad trip.
I'm never going to touch these things because a bad trip would be too much for
me to tolerate.
And then I started using psychedelics and I realized there's no such thing as a
bad trip, any more than there's a bad meal or a bad relationship or a bad day.
I mean, having an occasional bad thing in life,
doesn't stop you from doing things like eating or having relationships or living
typically. So what do you mean.
Are you saying there's no such thing as a bad trip.
You're saying there's no such thing as a bad meal.
I'm saying that there is such thing as a bad meal, but okay.
But it wouldn't prevent you from tripping. And I think that even the bad,
or wouldn't bring you from eating rather, sorry about that. But, uh,
but I think even these bad trips,
although they can be difficult are beneficial and our learning experience in the
same way that a bad meal could be. You learn not to go to that restaurant,
or maybe you learn something about what makes you sick or what to be careful of
in the future. You know,
if you are approaching life from a non fearful perspective where your intention
is to learn,
then you can extract benefit from almost any experience and these
difficult psychedelic experiences I genuinely believe.
And this is what is maybe the hardest thing to communicate about psychedelics is
that it's the difficult ones that are often the best.
Those are the ones that really teach you something.
And when you're trying to talk about psychedelics with people,
who've never used them. It's not a great selling point to say, oh, you know,
the best thing that can happen is you're going to think you're going to die.
But that is arguably the best thing that can happen is to think that you're
going to die because that's a confrontation with the overarching fear,
the fear that generates all other fears. And if you that fear,
then your life will almost certainly improve.
What is one thing that's sort of genuine,
genuinely universally accepted as a beneficial experience is a near
death experience,
sort of universally accepted as a transformative moment in people's lives.
I had this near death experience and I realized, wow, I got to get my together.
After that heart attack, I realized that life is a gift.
And I changed the way I think about things.
And I started calling people that I loved and telling them that I loved them.
This is the same. You can get a near death experience from cannabis.
You just don't ever die, but you really do. I mean,
it's the death of so many perceptions and so many things about your life,
especially from edible cannabis,
which I think is probably one of the least understood and most
potent things that people are consuming on a daily basis. I,
I can't tell you how many times I've given someone edible marijuana and they're
convinced that it's been laced with something awful and that they're going to
die, but then afterwards they come out of it and they're like,
I got some work to do.
The only way I would disagree with you is people that are prone to psychotic
breaks. Yeah. Yeah, because that, there, there is an absolute,
genuine connection between people who have a slippery hold on
reality and some experiences with psychedelics that lead them down a
bad road.
That's true. Um, it can, it's a stressor and like all stressors,
it can precipitate a psychotic break. Uh,
they've done pretty large scale epidemiological analysis of psychedelic drug
users versus the non psychedelic drug using population and the incidence of
mental illness isn't any higher.
So I don't think that you can argue that psychedelics cause mental illness,
but you can, and in some measures,
it seems to actually reduce it in terms of things like alcoholism,
substance abuse disorders. But, um,
but it can be a stressor that would precipitate such an episode in a susceptible
individual.
And I had a very traumatic and formative experience myself for my best friend
had a psychotic break while I was with him tripping.
So I've seen this firsthand. I know exactly what it looks like. Yeah.
I've had friends have real bad experiences too,
where they're screaming and yelling and then disassociative,
and then afterwards become very strange and have a really hard time with reality
for a bit. Yeah.
I've never seen someone have a complete psychotic break from it.
That he never recovered. Never, he never recovered.
He was my best friend at the time and he never.
So he was fine before the psychedelics. Yes, Jesus Christ.
But again, you know, it's and that happened.
Early. So now he's still.
Yes, Dan, but again, you know,
I typically don't tell that story in public because it's,
it could be misinterpreted as a scare story. You know, I don't,
it's impossible to prove the counterfactual,
would it have happened without psychedelics? Almost certainly.
I can't say all I know is that he took a very high dose of, uh,
a Silicon Ester and, um, had this episode,
he was hospitalized and he was not the same afterwards.
So I'm aware that this is, uh, uh, something that happens,
but it also typically happens in the early twenties, late teens,
the same time that people typically have psychotic breaks and develop
schizophrenia.
Yeah. The instances of schizophrenia in people who use cannabis are
cannabis in particular, but I don't know about other psychedelics,
but I would imagine they're very similar.
They're exactly the same as the incidences of schizophrenia and
non-music populations. It's like 1%,
1% across the board seem to have issues with schizophrenia.
And the real question is how many of those people could,
I mean, is it avoidable?
Like if your friend had never done that and instead had, you know,
become a marathon runner or something and, you know,
found some other outlets for his energy,
would he have never gone down that road? We don't know. It's impossible.
It's impossible. So I think it's very important to talk about that though.
And with further research, perhaps we could isolate genes, you know,
like they have four CTE now they have, um,
they can do an analysis of your genes and then determine whether or not
something like football would be a dangerous path for you because you have, uh,
a higher probability of developing CTE.
It would be wonderful if they figured out a way to do that with psilocybin or
with cannabis or with anything else and be able to recognize the potential
links to psychotic breaks and to, you know,
a host of different mental disorders that could possibly be triggered by high
doses.
Yes. I mean, this is one of so many things that needs to be done and that's,
you know,
everyone's very excited about all of this clinical research that's happening
right now. I'm excited about it as well,
but on one level it is very politically oriented research. You know,
the,
the things that they're looking at have actually typically been done before,
not all of it,
but the aim is to firmly establish these things that have been known for a long
time siliciden occasions,
mystical type experience or MDM is useful for treating
PTSD or psilocybin has an anti addictive effect.
These are things that people have known for a little while,
but now it's about proving it,
but I'm really looking forward to getting deeper into these serious questions
about, you know,
exactly how these drugs interact with various subtypes of serotonin receptors.
Because I think that they're going to be very important tools for understanding
consciousness as a whole.
Yeah. It would also be interesting knowing how they react to different diets.
You know, when people are, uh, you know,
when you're eating certain types of foods that are bad for your body,
I would really be curious to see what kind of effect that has. I mean, when,
when you have real large-scale research that goes over
really important variables in terms of acumen health.
And then you add in these different substances,
whether it's psilocybin or cannabis or whatever it is, it's,
it's going to be interesting to see how the body reacts to these various
preturbances is various changes of your state.
Yeah. And that's, you know, traditionally in a lot of these indigenous groups,
the diet plays a big role in the way that the drug is administered.
And I think we're slowly rediscovering a lot of things that have been known for
tens, maybe hundreds,
maybe thousands of years in some of these indigenous groups.